a quick test will show your sleep
chronotype you get the recommended eight
hours of shut-eye but you still feel
exhausted during certain parts of the
day or even full of energy when it's
time to hit the sack what's the deal
anyway
well sleep experts say that it all
depends on your chronotype so do you
know yours and why it matters if not
don't worry because you're about to find
out and be sure to subscribe and turn on
post notifications to join us on the
bright side dr. Michael brass an expert
in the science of sleep did some
research by observing a group of his
patients at the end of his study he was
able to divide them into four sleeping
types bears lions wolves and dolphins he
also found that fatigue and difficulty
getting up in the morning are simply
consequences of not following the daily
schedule that's best for your so called
chronotype so to find out what your
sleeping type is you'll have seven
questions with four answer choices each
in the end you'll need to count up your
A's B's C's and DS to find out your
results and how you need to organize
your life depending on your chronotype
so grab a pen and paper answer honestly
and let's get started question number
one what time do you naturally wake up a
8 or 9 a.m. be about 6 a.m. or even
earlier see somewhere around 11 a.m. D I
barely sleep through the night so the
time I wake up varies
[Music]
question number two how do you feel
about parties hey they're okay but I'm
usually too tired by the evening to
party for too long be not really my cup
of tea I choose a meeting up with my
closest friends for some coffee over
partying any day see I love them
actually I'm the life of every party Dee
I can't stand them cozying up on my
couch with a good book is my idea of fun
question number three what time do you
usually go to bed a as early as I
possibly can be about 9:00 to 10:00 p.m.
see no later than 12:00 a.m. D very late
if I'm not having a bout of insomnia
then I'm most likely scrolling through
my newsfeed or chatting with friends
question number four what do you do on
the weekends
a try to recoup my sleep be clean up the
house and prepare my schedule for the
next week see meet up with my friends or
family d relax at home question number
five do you get enough sleep at night eh
no I always want more B not really my
energy rarely lasts until the evening
C yes but mornings are still hard for me
D definitely not my sleep is usually
abrupt and restless question number six
what part of the day does your mind feel
at its sharpest a afternoon B morning C
evening D midday
question number seven how often do you
take naps a very frequently be quite
rarely see almost never D often enough
and that was the last question of the
test tally up all your ace B's C's and
DS and let's find out what your chrono
type is if most of your answers are a's
you're sleeping type is the bear it's
the most popular chronotype since 50 to
55% of all people in the world are bears
even though they have a stable schedule
that they rarely ignore they still don't
feel like they get enough sleep so if
you're a bear your perfect daily
schedule should look like this wake up
at 7 a.m. and get yourself going by
exercising for about eight to ten
minutes don't forget about a hearty
breakfast and coffee this morning meal
will help you stop overeating in the
evenings bears reach their maximum
productivity between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m.
so make sure to use these hours to the
fullest your type often gets tired as
lunchtime approaches so try to get out
for a quick walk at that time to fight
the drowsiness by 2 p.m. you may start
feeling tired again have another coffee
break to help yourself get through the
afternoon the time between 6 p.m. and 10
p.m. is perfect for exercising don't be
lazy even the simplest workout will
provide you with the necessary dose of
energy after that have a light dinner
with more protein and fewer carbs the
best time for bears to go to bed is 11
p.m. however don't forget to turn off
all your gadgets at around 10 p.m. to
prepare your system for sleep and help
it relax and remember the main sleeping
rule for bears is to never sleep more
than eight hours even on the weekends
sleeping for way too long makes your
system even more tire
while in eight hours it gets all the
relaxation it needs choosing option be
the most reveals that your chronotype is
the lion Lions make up 11 percent of the
world's population and can easily get up
before sunrise
they even complete 80% of their chores
before the other sleeping types even
wake up nonetheless Lions have their own
struggles for example they usually can't
stay that energetic through the
afternoon in the evening so to maintain
a healthy schedule Lions have to follow
a simple timetable wake up at about 5:30
a.m. and make yourself a nutritious
breakfast with more protein and fewer
carbohydrates after breakfast you can
spend some time meditating or working
out the time between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.
is the most productive for alliance
which means that you should try to get
as much out of yourself as you can
during this period you can have a light
snack three to four hours after
breakfast and eat some cottage cheese
yogurt or a protein bar to keep your
energy up by 5 p.m.
Lions already start feeling tired so try
to avoid working out after this time
instead do a little at home exercising
or go to the gym to stay fit and get
another dose of energy Lions should go
to bed at about 10 p.m. so make sure you
did everything you need and enjoy a good
night's sleep if the majority of your
answers are cease you're one of the 15
to 20 percent of people who belong to
the wolf chronotype wolves hate mornings
go to bed too late
and as a result press snooze countless
times each morning if you're a wolf your
perfect schedule for the day should
include waking up at about 7:30 a.m. to
actually do that set 2 alarms 20 minutes
apart the first one will wake you up and
the second one will make you get out of
bed as soon as you do that pour yourself
a glass of water and go out on the
balcony or near an open window to drink
it this will help your system wake up
make yourself your favorite breakfast
and walk to work if you can a 20 to 40
minute walk will help you get your head
straight and prepare you for the workday
wolves reach maximum productivity
between 12:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. with
2:00 p.m. being the absolute peak that's
why you should get involved
the working process slowly and postpone
the most important or challenging work
tasks until 1:00 p.m. you can save more
creative tasks for 5:00 p.m. you still
have energy after work so hit the gym or
do a little workout at home it's very
easy for Wolf's to stay up late but if
you really want to improve your schedule
and be more productive make it a rule to
turn off your devices at 11:00 p.m. and
go to bed at 12 a.m. and finally
choosing D as your go to options
signifies that you're sleeping type is
the dolphin dolphins make up 10% of the
world's population and their sleep is
pretty restless they even suffer from
insomnia from time to time to forget
about sleepless nights once and for all
dolphins have to make some changes in
their daily schedule wake up at 6 a.m.
and start your day with a morning run or
a couple of easy exercises after that
take a cold or contrast shower to wake
up completely and make yourself a
breakfast with protein and carbs as a
dolphin you'll reach your maximum
productivity between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m.
with the highest peak between 10 a.m.
and 12 p.m. of course
this window will be the perfect time for
the most difficult work tasks you'll
already start dragging around lunchtime
so let's go for a quick walk and shake
this tiredness off after work have a
light snack like a banana or a protein
bar and go to the gym or exercise at
home
avoid strength exercises though since
they don't contribute to proper sleep at
10:00 p.m.
put all your gadgets aside take a warm
bath and read a book this will help you
unwind and get ready for bed which you
should be doing at 11:00 p.m. 12 at the
latest
if you can't fall asleep immediately
don't worry try to change positions
until you find the most comfortable one
and sleep will come naturally so what
were your results and does your current
routine suit your chronotype let us know
down in the comments don't forget to
give this video a like share with your
friends and click Subscribe always stay
on the bright side of life
you